CANNELLONI AND CHICKEN WITH HAM


3/4  c. butter
3  chicken livers
3/4  c. Parmesan cheese, grated
2 1/2  c. milk, scalded
1/2  tsp. salt
8  oz. homemade cannelloni
2  whole chicken breasts, boned
5  slices ham
5 1/2  Tbsp. flour
5 to 8  c. light cream
1/4  tsp. white pepper

      Preheat oven to 375 degrees;.  In a frying pan, melt 4 tablespoons of butter.  Add chicken breasts and fry for 5 minutes, until lightly browned on both sides.  Transfer to bowl.  Add chicken livers to the frypan and cook 2 minutes on each side.  Transfer to bowl with chicken breasts.  Mince the chicken breasts, livers and ham together.  Add 1/4 cup Parmesan to the ground meat and mix well with a fork.  In a medium saucepan, melt another 4 tablespoons butter.  With a wooden spoon, stir the flour into the butter and cook for 2 minutes.  Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the milk slowly.  Return to heat and cook until sauce thickens.  Remove and add cream, salt and pepper.  Add 1/4 of the sauce to the meat and cheese mixture in the bowl and mix well.  Set aside.  Bring 2 1/2 quarts of water to a boil.  Drop into the boiling water and cook for 6 to 15 minutes, depending on the thickness.  With a slotted spoon, remove the pasta from the pan and place on dampened cloth to drain.  Using 1 tablespoon of butter, grease a large baking dish and spread 2 tablespoons of meat and cheese mixture on each pasta square.  Fold over and make a roll.  Place the cannelloni in either one or two layers, placing the joined side down in the baking dish.  Sprinkle with remaining cheese and cover with reserved sauce.  Dot the top of the dish with small pieces of butter and place in oven.  Bake for 30 minutes until lightly browned.
Cannelloni:
2  c. flour
3  eggs
1/4  tsp. salt

      Sift flour and salt into a mixing bowl.  Add eggs.  Use hands to mix the flour and eggs together and form a ball.  Place ball of dough on floured board and knead for 10 minutes, until smooth but stiff.  If necessary, add more flour.  Divide the dough into 4 pieces and roll out into thin sheet.  Cover with cloth and leave for 30 minutes.  Cut into 4 x 3-inch rectangles.
    