HOMEMADE VEGETABLE BEEF SOUP


3  lb. chuck roast
  beef suet (if roast is lean)
4  carrots
4  ham hocks with bone
2 1/2  lb. red potatoes, finely cubed (about 2 1/2 cups cooked)
1  lb. sliced okra (frozen or fresh, but thaw if frozen)
2  Tbsp. vegetable oil
3  cans (28 oz. each) whole tomatoes
2  c. onions, coarsely chopped
4  large sections garlic, minced
1  Tbsp. salt
1  tsp. ground black pepper
  baby lima beans
  speckled butter beans
  green beans
  purple hull peas
  whole kernel corn

      Clean and cut carrots crosswise in 2 inch pieces;  place in 5 quart cooking pan.  Wash roast, cut up in large pieces, season with salt, ground black pepper and garlic salt.  Transfer meat to 5 quart pan with carrots; add water to top of meat.  Cook covered for 2 hours or longer until very tender.  OR, cook in pressurized cooker (i.e., Presto cooker) with water up to top of meat for 40 minutes.  Remove meat to large bowl or rectangular pan, reserving broth.  Discard suet.  Trim fat from meat and cut into small pieces.  Remove carrots to a small bowl.  Set meat and carrots aside.  Strain beef broth into separate bowl, add water, if necessary, to make 2 cups; set broth aside.
       While beef is cooking, cook vegetables (except corn) separately on cook top, each with a ham hock, as directed on package if frozen (season with salt).  OR, when meat is done, cook each vegetable (except corn) with a ham hock and salt in Presto cooker for 12 minutes each.  Transfer each vegetable to a separate small bowl.  Separate meat from ham hocks and place in a small bowl; discard bones and fat and skin.  Season corn with butter and salt; cook in microwave or stovetop per package directions...fresh corn is great.
      Pour cubed raw potatoes in a 3 quart pan; add water to top of potatoes and cook until done.  Set aside.
      Fry okra in vegetable oil until light tan.  Pour into small bowl and set aside.
      Coarsely chop tomatoes and pour into a 5 quart stockpot; add chopped onions,  garlic and okra.  Cook on medium heat, for about 1 1/2 hours.  Stir in broth, add vegetables to measure 1 cup each (add corn last, as it sticks easily), add 2 1/2 cups potatoes, beef and ham hock meats.
      Slice carrots into soup mixture.  Add salt and pepper; adjust seasoning to taste.  Cook for about 30 minutes;  stir in 1 cup corn.   Reserve leftover vegetables for another use.
    