CALAMARES EN SU TINTA
(Squid In Its Own Ink)  

1  1/4 kg. fresh whole squid with ink sacs
1  large onion, chopped fine
1/4  c. parsley, chopped
1  tsp. chopped garlic
1/2  c. olive oil
2  Tbsp. flour
1  c. cold water
1  tsp. salt

 
Optional Spices:
1/8  tsp. ground nutmeg
1/4  tsp. black pepper

      Optional Spices:  Add before simmering for the 20 minutes.
      Clean and prepare the squid:  Grasp the head and tail sections firmly in your hands and pull the fine and outer part of the tail away from the head and tentacles.  Carefully lift the silvery gray ink sac from the inner section of the tail and set aside in a fine sieve.  Using a sharp knife, cut the tentacles free, just beyond the eyes of the squid.  Discard the innards and eye section.  With your fingers, pop out the small round cartilage from the core of the tentacle base.  Pull out the transparent pen-shaped tail skeleton from the inside of the tail cone and discard it.  Pull the fins away from the cone-shaped tail and set aside.
      Under cold running water, peel the red, lacy outer membrane away from the fins and cone with your fingers, and remove as much of the membrane as possible from the tentacles.  Gently invert the cone and then wash it thoroughly.  Pat the tail cone, fins and tentacles completely dry with paper towels.  Chop the tentacles and fins into fine pieces.  Stuff the cone with the garlic, parsley, onions (about half of the onion) and chopped fins and tentacles. Sew the cone closed.  Heat the olive oil over high heat until a light haze forms.  Add the squid and cook briskly for 5 or 6 minutes, turning the squid constantly.  Add the remaining onion. When the onion begins to turn brown, reduce the heat; cover and simmer for 20 minutes.  While the squid is simmering, mash the ink sacs in the sieve with the back of a spoon to press out as much as of the ink as possible.  Pour the water over the ink sacs and mash again to force out any remaining ink.  The water should become dark and opaque.  Beat the flour into the ink-water and beat until smooth.  When the squid has simmered 20 minutes, pour the ink-water over it, stirring constantly.  Bring it to a boil over high heat. As soon as a boil is reached, reduce the heat to its lowest point; cover and simmer for 5 minutes.  Remove the pan from the heat and without removing the cover, let the squid rest for about 5 minutes. Taste for seasoning and serve from a clay pan.  Hot rice may accompany the squid.
    