ROASTED TURKEY WITH CHIPOTLE-MAPLE GLAZE

Pumpkin Seed Mole:
2  poblano chiles, halved lengthwise and seeded
1  Tbsp. unsalted butter
1  c. chopped white onion
4  garlic cloves, chopped
1  thick white corn tortilla, torn into small pieces
2 1/2  c. low-sodium chicken broth
1/2  c. toasted pumpkin seeds
1  tsp. salt
1/2  c. heavy cream
1/4  c. chopped fresh cilantro

 
Chipotle-Maple Glaze:
1/4  c. unsalted butter
2  garlic cloves, minced
2  Tbsp. pure maple syrup
1  tsp. each ancho or regular chili powder and paprika
1/2  tsp. salt
1/4  tsp. each chipotle chili powder or 1 chipotle chile in adobo sauce, minced and cinnamon

 
Roasted Turkey:
1  (15 to 18 lb.) fresh or frozen turkey (if frozen, thaw in the refrigerator 3 days)
1  tsp. each salt and pepper, mixed
1/4  c. unsalted butter, melted

      Mole: Preheat broiler. On foil-lined baking sheet, broil chiles, cut side down, 4-inches from heat, 10 minutes until evenly charred. Transfer to paper bag; seal. Let stand until cool. Remove skins; cut into small pieces.
      In saucepan, melt butter. Add onion and garlic; cook until softened. Add tortilla pieces; cook 5 minutes until lightly golden in spots. Add broth; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer 10 minutes. Let cool.
      In blender, puree broth mixture, chiles, pumpkin seeds and salt. Return to saucepan. Simmer 10 minutes. (Can be made 2 days ahead; refrigerate.) Place oven rack in lowest position; reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees;.
      Glaze: In small saucepan, melt butter and garlic. Remove from heat; stir in syrup, ancho chili powder, paprika, salt, chipotle chili powder and cinnamon.
      Turkey: Remove neck and giblets from turkey. Rinse turkey; pat dry. Trim fat. Sprinkle body and neck cavities with salt mixture. Tuck wings under; tie legs together.
      Place turkey, breast side up, in large roasting pan; brush with butter. Insert ovenproof meat thermometer into the thickest part of thigh, not touching the bone. Roast 3 hours for 15 pound turkey or 4 1/2 hours for 18 pounds, until 170 degrees;. Baste with glaze twice, once halfway through roasting, then toward the end.
      Transfer bird to carving board. Top turkey with foil; let stand 45 minutes. Pour fat, drippings from pan into glass measure; skim fat. Carve turkey; transfer to platter. Drizzle with accumulated juices and pan drippings. Stir cream and cilantro into mole. Heat. Makes 12 servings with leftovers.
    