ORANGE AND BLACK-EYED PEA SALAD


2 (15 oz.)  cans black-eyed peas or 4 c. cooked peas
  small handful of fresh basil, chopped (optional)
1 large  bunch watercress, washed and dried
4  oranges
1/2  c. chopped parsley
1/4  c. finely sliced red onions

 
Dressing:
  juice and grated rind of 1 orange
2  Tbsp. raspberry flavored vinegar
  a dash of vegie-sal and cayenne
1  Tbsp. oil
6  minced green onions (include some green tops)

      Tofu, also known as soybean curd, is a soft, cheese-like food made by curdling fresh hot soy milk with a coagulant. Traditionally, the curding agent used to make tofu is nigari, a compound found in natural ocean water or calcium sulfate, a naturally occurring mineral.  Curds also can be produced by acidic foods like lemon juice or vinegar.  The curds then are generally pressed into a solid block.
      Tofu was first used in China around 200 B.C.  Although the discovery of the process for making tofu is lost to the ages, Chinese legend has it that the first batch of tofu was created by accident.  A Chinese cook added nigari to flavor a batch of pureed cooked soybeans; the nigari produced the curd that we know today as tofu.
      Today, tofu is a dietary staple throughout Asia.  This delicate food is made fresh daily in thousands of small tofu shops and sold on the street.
      Tofu is made from soybeans and is an excellent source of protein.
      The Far East has eaten Tofu for their source of protein for at least 2,000 years.
      The usable protein in a half cup of soybeans is equal to the amount of protein in a 5-ounce steak.
      Tofu contains:  calcium, phosphorus, iron, Vitamins A, B and B2 and has no cholesterol and hardly a trace of fat.  All these things make it an ideal substitute for flesh meat.  Tofu can be made by cooking the soybeans, straining and adding a thickening agent, then molding or pressing until firm.
      In recipes, tofu acts like a sponge and has the miraculous ability to soak up any flavor that is added to it.  Crumble it into a pot of spicy chili sauce and it tastes like chili.  Blend it with cocoa and sweetener and it becomes a double for chocolate cream pie filling.  Cubes of firm tofu can be added to any casserole or soup.
    