CHICKEN YAKITORI
(Skewered Grilled Chicken)  

1  Tbsp. sugar
8  Tbsp. soy sauce
8  Tbsp. sake or dry white wine
4  Tbsp. mirin (sweet rice wine)
12  oz. boned chicken with skin
7  oz. chicken livers
4  to 6 block mushrooms
4  small green peppers
2  leeks
  Shichimi Togarashi (Japanese red hot powdered pepper mixed with other 6 spices)

      You will need 20 to 30 fine metal or bamboo skewers, about 5-inches long.
      Yakitori Sauce:  Combine sugar, soy sauce, sake and mirin in small saucepan.  Bring to boil; reduce heat to medium.  Cook, uncovered, for 10 to 15 minutes or sauce is reduced by 1/3.  Cool and pour into tall large mouth jar or any tall glass (for easy dipping).  Adjust flavor to your taste.  A bit of fresh ground ginger used in the sauce will bring out the tasty flavor.
Preparation:

      Skewers:  If using bamboo skewers, soak them in water for several minutes to prevent burning.
      Chicken:  Wash and dry; cut into 1-inch squares.
      Livers:  Cut into 1-inch squares and soak in water for 5 minutes.  Drain well.
      Mushrooms:  Discard stems (if dry mushrooms are used, follow the Sukiyaki recipe).
      Green pepper:  Cut lengthwise into quarters, then crosswise into halves or thirds.
      Leeks:  Cut into 1-inch lengths.  Thread each skewer with any combinations as desired, 4 to 5 pieces chicken, chicken and leek, mushrooms with green pepper, liver with leek or 4 to 5 pieces liver.  You may add any other vegetable to alternate the combination.  Be sure to leave a little space between each piece for even cooking.
      Place skewers on grill 5 to 6-inches from hot coals.  Repeat the following motion:  Grill few seconds, then dip into Yakitori sauce; return to grill until chicken is tender.  (Do not overcook.) Arrange Yakitori attractively on large platter and serve immediately with Shichimi pepper.  (Lemon or any other favorite spices may be used.)
      For indoor cooking:  Broil skewers about 5-inches from heat, glazing with Yakitori sauce as directed.  If desired, brush sauce onto skewers instead of dipping.  Serve with hot cooked rice and Miso Soup, as Japanese style, or simply serve with tossed green salad and hot biscuits.
    