GRILLED SALMON FILLETS
(Easy; See Marinade Variations)  

2  Tbsp. vegetable oil (plus extra for grill grate)
2  Tbsp. grated fresh ginger
1 1/2  tsp. ground cumin
1 1/2  tsp. ground coriander
1 1/2  tsp. salt
1/4  tsp. cayenne pepper
4 center-cut salmon fillets (each about 6  oz. and 1 1/2-inches thick), pin bones removed
  Mango Chutney (recipe follows)

      Make a marinade by mixing 2 tablespoons oil, ginger, cumin, coriander, salt and cayenne together in large shallow bowl. Add fish and marinate in the refrigerator for no more than 30 minutes. Meanwhile, build a single-level fire. Set grill rack in place. Cover grill with lid and  let rack heat up, about 5 minutes. Rub cooking grate with oil-dipped wad of paper towels.
      If using a gas grill, preheat grill by turning all burners to high and closing lid until very hot, about 15 minutes.
      Place fillets skin side down on grill grate; grill until skin shrinks and separates from flesh and turns black, 2 to 3 minutes. (If using a gas grill, cook with lid down for 3 to 4 minutes per side.) Flip fillets gently with long-handled tongs or spatula; grill until fillets are opaque throughout, yet translucent at very center when checked with the tip of a paring knife, about 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer to platter and serve with chutney. Makes 4 servings.
      Mango Chutney: Peel, pit and cut a large mango into 1/2-inch dice. Combine mango with 3 tablespoons lemon juice and 1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro leaves.
      Variations: Prepare a different marinade for the salmon and omit the chutney.
Soy-Lemon Marinade:
1/3  c. soy sauce
1  tsp. grated lemon zest
1/4  c. fresh lemon juice
2  Tbsp. olive oil
2  cloves minced garlic
2  tsp. Dijon mustard
2  tsp. sesame oil
1  Tbsp. minced fresh herbs (such as parsley, basil, rosemary and thyme)

      Mix all ingredients together. Marinate salmon fillets or 1 1/2-inch cubes of salmon for about 1 hour.
      If using cubes, skewer them with vegetables (such as red bell pepper, red onion, zucchini and mushrooms) and grill them for about 8 minutes.
Dill-Lemon Marinade:
1/4  c. white wine
  finely shredded zest and juice of 1 lemon
1/3  c. finely chopped fresh dill
1  Tbsp. kosher salt
1 1/2  tsp. freshly ground pepper

      Mix all ingredients. Pour over salmon fillets. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate 30 minutes. Brush fillets or steaks with olive oil before grilling.
    