CHICKEN & DUMPLINGS



6 or 7  lb. hen
  Cornstarch  (3 Tbsp. per bowl in 2 bowls)
2 1/4  c. sifted all purpose flour (not self-rising)
3  tsp. baking powder
3/4  tsp. salt
5  Tbsp. (1/3 c.) solid shortening
3/4  c. whole milk (plus or minus)

      Wash and cut up hen in frying size pieces.  Salt and pepper each piece.  Place in 5 quart pan, cover with water, and cook until thickest piece (usually the breast) "flakes" or separates easily with fork, approximately 1 1/2 hours.  If using a pressure cooker (Presto cooker), add water up to 3/4 of chicken; cook for 45 minutes.
      Dumplings:  while chicken is cooking, mix dumplings (using 2 bowls, make a recipe in each bowl).  Mix together the dry ingredients in medium size bowl, cut in shortening by cutting criss-cross with 2 dull dinner knives, or using pastry cutter, to size of small peas.  Add milk, mix with spoon.  If dough is too dry, mix in small amount of milk   if too sticky, mix in small amount of flour, then knead with hands, mounding into a round. Place dough on floured wax paper or flouring cloth.  Place wax paper on top of dough and roll out to about 1/8 inch round or rectangle.  With pastry cutter or sharp knife, cut in lengthwise strips, about 1/2 inch wide, then cut across strips to make 2 inch long by 1/2 inch wide strips.  Repeat with additional recipe.  Set aside.
      Remove cooked chicken from pan, reserving broth.  Discard skin and bone.  Tear or cut chicken in spoon size pieces, set aside. Strain broth;  divide evenly between two 5 quart pans or stock pots.  Add water sparingly to dilute to make approximately 9 cups, being careful not to lose rich broth taste.  If broth is not rich enough, add chicken bouillon granules.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.
      Mix 3 tablespoons cornstarch with enough water to make a medium mixture.  Make another mixture for the other pan.  Add chicken, bring to a boil and slowly pour in cornstarch.  Drop in dumplings, a few at a time, being careful not to stir.  Use fork to separate dumplings in pan to allow room for all the uncooked dumplings.  Cook at medium for about 5 minutes.  Remove from burner, cover with lid; allow to rest for about 5 minutes before serving.
      Yield:  Serves about 10.
    