LUMPIA


  1-2  boxes lumpia wrappers, separated
1  lb. ground pork
1  can water chestnuts, drained
1  can bamboo shoots, drained
1  can bean sprouts, drained
1  can mushrooms (or fresh mushrooms)
1  small bag frozen peas and carrots
  soy sauce to taste
  small bowl of water
  frying pan of hot vegetable oil

      Put the ground pork (uncooked) in a very large mixing bowl. Using a food processor, cut up all of the listed vegetables, except frozen peas and carrots, into small bits.  Mix all of the chopped vegetables into the pork.  Add soy sauce to taste.  Last, add the peas and carrots.  Take one lumpia wrapper, which are very thin, and place mixture in a line about the thickness of your finger to one side of the wrapper, leaving about an inch on both sides to the edge of the wrapper.  The line of mixture should be not quite two finger lengths long.  Take the wrapper edge (left and right sides) of the pork line and fold it over to cover the end of the line.   Do this to both sides.  Now take the smallest side of the wrapper and cover the mixture tightly, rolling the mixture into the center of the wrapper all the way to the opposite edge.  Holes in the wrapper are ok.  Dip your finger tips into the bowl of water and gently rub them over the outer edge of the wrapper to seal the wrapper shut.  The lumpia should look like a very tall, skinny egg roll.  Twice as long and half as round. Roll all of the lumpia rolls before proceeding further.  Uncooked lumpia can be frozen and cooked later.
      These cook fast, so don't leave the frying pan for very long! When oil is hot, start putting lumpia rolls in the pan, one at a time without layering any of them.  Usually by the time you put them all in, the first ones are ready to be turned over.  When they all get turned over, the first ones are ready to be taken out of the pan.  They are ready when golden brown on both sides.  These are extremely hot when cooked, so let cool before eating.  Best when dipped in soy sauce, sweet and sour sauce, or duck sauce. Good alone, too!  This is a very time consuming dish, but well worth the work!  We always got several of us together to make them.
    