VIRGINIA'S GREEN ENCHILADAS


1/2  stick butter
1  large onion, chopped
2  cloves garlic, chopped fine
2 (10 oz.)  cans chopped green chiles (hot or mild, your choice)
1  can cream of mushroom soup
2  cans cream of chicken soup
1 to 1 1/2  c. milk, as needed
  Grated cheese (Cheddar, Monterey Jack or a combination)
1 to 2  dozen corn tortillas
  Hot oil

      Sauté onions and garlic in butter.  Add chiles,  soups, one cup milk (more if the sauce is too thick) and 1/2 cup of the grated cheese. Heat slowly until cheese is melted and  mixed in thoroughly.  Stir often to keep bottom from burning.  You can use a double boiler if you wish, but it is not necessary if you are careful.  When the sauce is ready, dip each tortilla in hot oil just until limp (3 to 5 seconds if the oil is hot enough).  Dip immediately into the sauce, put on a plate and fill with 1 to 2 tablespoons of grated cheese.  Roll and place in baking dish, seam side down. Continue until you have used all but about 1 cup of the sauce. Pour the remaining sauce over rolled tortillas and sprinkle with more grated cheese.  Place in oven, uncovered, on low heat (about 300 degrees;) until warmed throughout and cheese on top is melted (about 30 minutes).
      Lower Fat Alternative:  After you dip each tortilla in hot oil, place it on absorbent paper.  This removes excess oil.  It works well to finish all of this step (dipping the tortillas in the oil and draining them) before going on to the next step (dipping them in the sauce).  The rest of the instructions are the same.
      Alternate Method:  This alternate method is a lot easier on your fingertips.  After you have drained all of the tortillas on absorbent paper, tear them into pieces, about 6 pieces per tortilla.  Pour about 1 cup of sauce into the baking dish and spread to cover the bottom evenly.  Layer half of the tortilla pieces into the pan.  Cover with half of the sauce and half of the grated cheese.  Repeat using the other half of each ingredient. Follow same baking instructions as above.
    