BAKED CHICKEN BREAST CORNBREAD STUFFING


8  whole chicken breasts, boned and skinned
1  stick butter, divided
1  small sweet onion, diced
3   c. collard greens, washed and chopped
2  c. crumbled cornbread
1  egg, beaten slightly
1  tsp. ground sage
1/2  tsp. salt
1/4  tsp. pepper
  Sweet Onion Gravy, recipe follows
  cooked rice

 
Gravy:
4  tbsp. butter
2  vidalia onions or other sweet onions, thinly sliced
2  c. chicken broth
1/2  c. heavy cream
1/2  tsp. brown food coloring
1/2  tsp. salt
1/4  tsp. pepper
1/4  c. cold water
2  tbsp. cornstarch
  Gravy from fry pan

      In large fry pan, place all but one tbsp. of the butter and melt over medium heat. Add onion and sauté until transparent. Add collard greens and cook until tender, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat and place onion and collards in large bowl. Add cornbread, egg and sage. Mix well and cool. Between two sheets of plastic wrap, place chicken breasts, smooth side down. Pound gently with meat mallet or rolling pin until slightly flattened. Place 1/8 of stuffing on center of each breast, roll and tuck ends under. On large, greased baking pan with sides, place chicken. Melt remaining 1 tbsp. of butter and brush lightly on chicken. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. (At this point, chicken may be covered and placed in refrigerator for up to 24 hours). Place in 375 degrees; oven and cook about 20 minutes or until meat is no longer pink when tested with a knife. Slice each breast into 5 slices and arrange on plate with Sweet Onion Gravy and rice. Makes 8 servings.
       To prepare Sweet Onion Gravy, in fry pan, place 4 tbsp. butter and melt over medium heat. Add 2 thinly-sliced onions and sauté until transparent. Add 2 c. chicken broth, 1/2 c. heavy cream, 1/2 tsp. brown food coloring, 1/2 tsp. salt and 1/4 tsp. pepper, bring to boil. In 1/4 c. cold water, dissolve 2 tbsp. cornstarch; add some of gravy from fry pan and stir to mix well. Carefully add cornstarch mixture to gravy, stirring vigorously to prevent lumps. Bring to boil, stirring constantly, until thickened.
    