PAELLA VALENCIA


1  lb. mussels in the shell
1  lb. small clams in the shell
1/2  c. olive oil
2  lb. chicken thighs
1/2  lb. boneless pork butt, cut 1-inch cubes
2  onions, peeled and sliced
2  garlic cloves, crushed
1  c. smoked ham, cut 1/2-inch cubes
1  c. chorizo (Spanish or Mexican), sliced
1  red bell pepper, sliced thin
2  c. Arborio-style rice
3  c. chicken stock (fresh or canned)
1/8  tsp. saffron threads, crushed (optional)
2  Tbsp. Annatto oil
1  tsp. paprika
1/2  c. peas, defrosted if frozen
1/2  lb. large shrimp, peeled
1  c. dry white wine
  salt to taste
  lemon slices for garnish

      With a paring knife or a pair of pliers trim or pull off the fuzzy beards from the mussels.  Rinse the clams and mussels well and soak them in cold water for 1 hour.  Drain, leaving any sand behind.  Heat a 15-inch round paella pan or a large frying pan.
      Add the 1/2 cup olive oil and brown the chicken until brown on all sides.  Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside.
      Brown and cook the pork in the same way.  Remove the pork to the chicken plate, leaving the oil in the pan.  Reheat the pan and add the onion, garlic, ham cubes and chorizo slices.  Sauté until the onion is clear, then add the red bell pepper.  Cook for a moment and remove from the pan, leaving the oil behind.
      Reheat the pan and add the rice.  Stir over medium heat until the grains begin to color just a bit.  You may need additional oil at this point.  Now add the reserved chicken and pork, along with the cooked vegetable mixture.  In a saucepan, bring the chicken stock to a boil and add the optional saffron, the annatto oil, paprika and salt to taste.  When the ingredients are hot, add to the paella pan or frying pan.  Heat until all comes to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and cook the dish, covered, rotating it now and then on the burner, for about 8 minutes.
      Stir in the wine.  Add the shrimp, clams and mussels to the pan, being sure to push the clams and mussels down into the rice, hinged sides down.
      Sprinkle the peas on top and continue to cook, covered, until the clams and mussels are open and the rice is just tender. Garnish with the lemon slices and serve.
    