HOW TO CAN VEGETABLES

Jar Transfer:

      Transfer jars with jar lifter or long handled canning tongs to and from canner safely.  Place hot jars on rack or towel, allowing 2-inches of air space on all sides for jars to cool evenly.
Points on Packing:

      Raw Pack:  Pack cold raw vegetables (except corn, lima beans and peas) tightly into container and cover with boiling water.
      Hot Pack:  Preheat vegetables in water or steam.  Cover with cooking liquid or boiling water.  Cooking liquid is recommended for packing most vegetables because it may contain minerals and vitamins dissolved out of the food.  Boiling water is recommended when cooking liquid is dark, gritty or strong-flavored, and when there isn't enough cooking liquid.
How to Check Canning Jars:

      The first step in home canning should take place long before food and equipment are assembled and ready to go.
      Jars and other supplies should be checked prior to the canning session.  In that way, you can replace damaged supplies and purchase new ones to avoid costly delays or inconvenience.  Here are some tips to help you.
      Choosing Mason Jars:  Jars manufactured especially for home canning generically are called Mason jars and must be used when preserving.  They are designed with a specially threaded mouth for proper sealing with Mason lids so, can with standard Mason jars only.
      Preparing Glass Jars:  Check all jars, rings and lids carefully.  Discard any with nicks or cracks in top sealing edge and threads that may prevent airtight seals.  Rings should be free of dents or rust.  Select the size of closures, wide mouth or regular, that fits your jar.  Wash jars in hot, soapy water and rinse well.  Then place in boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes. Keep jars in hot water until ready to use.  Boil lids according to package directions.
      Closing Glass Jars:  Always wipe jar rim clean after food product is packed.  Place lid on jar with button side up.  Screw rings on firmly, but don't force.  Do not re-tighten rings after processing or cooling.
      A new lid that snaps down and clicks as the jars cools, providing visible proof of sealing, called Magic Button is made by Owens-Illinois.  Its red button pops up when the seal is broken. The Magic Mason jars that go with the special lids have metric and U.S. measurements molded on the side.
Processing in a Pressure Canner:

      Corn is best when eaten as soon after picking as possible. Cook covered in 1/2 to 1-inch boiling unsalted water for 3 to 6 minutes.  (Salt toughens, so add vegie-sal later.)  Serve with soy margarine and vegie-sal.
    