FUNCHE DE MAIZ


1  c. fine ground yellow corn meal
1/2  tsp. salt
1  oz. butter
1/2  tsp. sugar or honey
1  qt. milk
1/4  tsp. cinnamon

      1.  Tortillas as "bread":  Corn or flour tortillas may be used.
      The most traditional method is to heat the tortilla directly over an open flame, turning constantly; however, a preheated comal or heavy cast-iron skillet may also be used.  Dampen each tortilla slightly with water if it is too dry and does not soften easily. Cook over high heat, turning once.
      Wrap the warmed tortillas together in linen; serve with butter.  If heated in advance, keep warm in a 200 degrees; oven, wrapped in a damp linen towel, for up to 1 1/2 hours.
      2.  Tacos:  Use corn tortillas.
      Prepare tortilla as directed; fill and fold.  Garnish.  This is the traditional method.  To make in advance, place single layer of prepared tacos in a baking pan; cover tightly with foil.  Reheat in a 300 degrees; oven.  Garnish and serve.
      Fry the tortilla in 1/2-inch hot oil (425 degrees;).  Oil is sufficiently hot when a small piece of tortilla pops immediately to the surface when dropped into the oil.  Fold tortilla in half; hold edges with tongs.  Submerge center of tortilla in oil; flatten bottom of tortilla by briefly pressing fold to bottom of pan.  Cook each side of the shell, holding the upper side with tongs, preventing the sides from sticking together.  Cook very briefly for a soft shell taco, until golden brown for a crisp shell taco. Drain on paper towel.  Fill and serve immediately.  Garnish as desired.
      3.  Taquitos (Miniature Tacos):  Use corn tortillas.
      Using a 2-inch round biscuit cutter, cut as many circles as possible from each tortilla (usually three).  Prepare as for Tacos.
      4.  Tostadas:  Use corn tortillas.  Lightly salt the tortilla. Fry tortilla in 1/4-inch hot oil (425 degrees;), turning at least once. Cook until golden brown and crisp. Drain on paper towel.  Spread with warm refried beans; top with meat.  Garnish.
      Tortillas may be prepared in advance.  Reheat in a 350 degrees; oven for 5 minutes; top with ingredients.
      5.  Tostaditas (Miniature Tostadas):  Use corn tortillas. Using a 2-inch round biscuit cutter, cut as many circles as possible from each tortilla (usually three).  Prepare as Tostadas.
      6. Totopos (Tortilla Chips):  Use corn tortillas.
      Cut tortillas into quarters or sixths.  Salt lightly.  Fry in 1/4-inch hot oil (425 degrees;), turning at least once.  Cook until golden brown and crisp.  Drain on paper towel.
      7. Burritos:  Use flour tortillas.
      Heat tortilla as described in Method 1. When soft, place filling in center and roll, folding in the ends.  Wrap in foil and keep warm.
      To make in advance, tightly wrap prepared burritos in foil. Reheat in a 300 degrees; oven just before serving.
      8.  Quesadillas:  Use corn or flour tortillas.  Heat tortilla as described in Method 1, just until soft.  Top with sliced or grated cheese and chili strips.  Fold in half. Continue to cook, turning once, until lightly browned and cheese is melted.  Garnish with salsa.
    