GUIDE TO COMMON CHILES

Poblano (mild), fresh (green):

      (Known as ANCHO chili when dried, red.)
      Fresh variety is limited in availability and must be roasted and peeled prior to use.  Dried variety is used to make a pulp as a base for sauces; the chile is also used in ground form.
Mulato (medium hot), dried (dark red):

      Dried variety is used to make a pulp as a base for sauces; the chile is also used in powdered form.
      Major use: Mole Poblano, a classical cooking sauce used with poultry.
Anaheim (mild), fresh (green):

      (Known as CALIFORNIA chile when dried, red).
      Canned variety, "Green Chiles," is readily available.  These chiles have been roasted and peeled and are ready-to-use. Available whole and diced.
      Fresh variety is limited in availability and must be roasted and peeled prior to use.  Dried variety is used to make a pulp as a base for sauces; the chile is also used in ground form.
Pasilla (hot), dried (dark red):

      Dried variety is used to make a pulp as a base for sauces; the chile is also used in ground form.
Jalapeno (hot), fresh (green):

      (Known as CHIPOTLE chile when smoke-dried, light brown.)
      Available pickled for primary use as a garnish or condiment; also chopped for use in table salsas and salads.
      Fresh variety is limited in availability; also chopped for use in table salsas and salads.  Dried variety is usually used in ground form in table salsas.
Serrano (hot), fresh (green):

      (Known as JAPONES chile when dried, red.)
      Fresh and pickled varieties are limited in availability; primarily used as a garnish or condiment and also chopped for use in table salsas.
      Dried variety is used in ground form in table salsas.
Small Yellow Chiles (hot), fresh (yellow):

      (Resembles Floral Gem variety.)
      Available pickled for primary use as a garnish condiment, also chopped for use in table salsas and salads.
      Fresh variety is limited in availability; also chopped for use in table salsas and salads.
    