FAJITAS CON AVOCADO


  salsa
2  avocados, peeled and sliced
  flour tortillas

 
Marinade:
1/4  c. tequila
3  Tbsp. corn oil
1/2  tsp. each:  chili powder, paprika, crushed red pepper and fresh ground pepper
2  Tbsp. fresh lime juice
1  clove garlic, minced
1 1/2  tsp. each:  onion salt, dried leaf oregano and ground cumin

 
Fajitas:
1  lb. skirt steak or chicken, boned and skinned
1  Tbsp. cilantro
1/2  c. chopped onion
1/2  c. diced tomato
1/2  c. diced green pepper
3 to 4  Tbsp. corn oil
1/2  c. thinly sliced green onions
1  whole chicken, boiled, skinned, boned and cut into strips or shredded
1/4  c. butter or margarine
1  medium white onion, chopped
1 to 2  cloves garlic, pressed
6  large fresh Anaheim green chilies, blistered, skinned and chopped or 1 can chopped
5  large fresh tomatoes, skinned and chopped
1  green bell pepper, finely chopped
2  Tbsp. fresh cilantro, finely chopped
  coriander (in can)
1/8  tsp. cumin
1  c. chicken broth, reserved (from boiling chicken)
12  large flour tortillas
2  large fresh Anaheim green chilies, blistered, skinned, seeded and cut into 1/4-inch strips (lengthwise) or one 7 oz. can
3/4  lb. Monterey Jack cheese, cut into fingers 1/4-inch thick
2  cans cream of mushroom soup
1/2  c. heavy cream or half and half cream
1  lb. Longhorn or medium-sharp Cheddar cheese, shredded

      Prepare the chicken as indicated, then place in a bowl and set aside or chill.  In a large heavy frypan or skillet, melt the butter over a medium heat.  Add onion and garlic; sauté about 4 minutes, then add the chopped chilies, tomatoes, bell pepper, cilantro, broth and cumin.  Let this mixture simmer over a medium-low heat about an hour, stirring occasionally, uncovered (add more chicken broth if mixture gets too thick and dry).  Remove from heat and dip (to soften) each tortilla in the sauce; lay flat, then place strips of chicken, 1 to 2 pieces of Jack cheese and 1 to 2 strips of green chili at one end of the tortilla.
      Roll the filled tortilla and place in a lightly greased large baking dish or pan, seam side down.  Fill the pan with the rolled tortillas.  Pour sauce over all.  Combine soup and cream; pour over all, then cover with shredded cheese.  Bake in a preheated 350 degrees; oven 30 minutes.  Then ENJOY!
    