BLACK PEPPER-CRUSTED STANDING RIB ROAST AU JUS


1  (8 1/2 lb.) standing rib roast (weight with bones), top fat trimmed
  vegetable oil
12  Tbsp. (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter (room temperature)
2  Tbsp. cracked or coarsely ground black pepper
4 large  cloves garlic, minced
1/2  tsp. salt
2 1/4  c. low-salt beef broth
1/2  c. dry red wine

      Boning the roast makes slicing the meat much easier at serving time; have your butcher remove the backbone, or chine, from the whole rack and cut the meat off the ribs in 1 piece. Then tie the meat back onto the bones. The roast can be served on or off the bones. To crack whole peppercorns, enclose them in a resealable plastic bag and crush slightly with a meat mallet.
      Place roast, fat side up, in roasting pan. Brush exposed ends of roast with vegetable oil. Sprinkle roast lightly all over with salt. Mix 8 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons cracked pepper, minced garlic and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a small bowl. Reserve 2 tablespoons pepper butter for the sauce. Spread remaining pepper butter all over top (fat side) of the roast. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover roast and reserved pepper butter separately; chill.)
      Position rack in bottom 1/3 of oven and preheat to 350 degrees;. Roast rib roast until instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part of meat registers 125 degrees; for medium-rare, about 2 hours and 45 minutes. Transfer roast to platter and cover loosely with foil; let rest 30 minutes (temperature will rise slightly as roast stands).
      Strain pan juices from roasting pan into measuring cup. Skim off any fat from top of pan juices; discard fat. Return pan juices to roasting pan; set pan over 2 burners. Add broth and wine to roasting pan and boil over high heat until liquid is reduced to 1 1/4 cups, scraping up any browned bits from bottom of pan, about 6 minutes. Whisk in reserved pepper butter and remaining 4 tablespoons plain butter. Season with more salt and pepper, if desired. Slice roast and serve with sauce.
    