COCONUT MILK KHOWSAY
(Spaghetti)  
Coconut Soup:
1 (13.5 oz)  can coconut milk
2  cups water
2  Tbsp. basen (gram flour)
1/4  small onion, thinly sliced
4  Tbsp. oil
  3-4 curry leaves
1/2  Tbsp. salt
1/8  tsp. haldi (turmeric)
1/4  tsp. cayenne pepper
1/2  Tbsp. sugar
1  tsp. monosodium glutamate
1  lb. thin spaghetti (or capellini for a thinner pasta)*

 
Chicken or Beef Curry:
2  chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch cubes or 1 lb. boneless beef, cut into 1-inch cubes
1  small onion, blended until liquefied
1/4  cup of oil
1  tsp. garlic paste
1/2  tsp. ginger paste
2  tsp. cayenne pepper
1  tsp. paprika
1-1/2  tsp. salt
1/4  tsp. haldi (turmeric)
  pinch of monosodium glutamate

 
Garnishes:
1  packet Ramen noodles (for crispy noodle topping)**
  Boiled eggs, sliced (optional)
  Thinly sliced green onions
  Crushed red pepper flakes
  Chopped cilantro
  Lemon or lime

      *Boil  pasta according to directions. Cover and keep aside.
       **To prepare, heat enough oil in a 1 quart saucepan to deep fry noodles.  Break into 4 pieces; fry until light golden, only a minute or two on each side.  Drain on paper towel and break into smaller pieces. Keep aside.
      In a small bowl, mix the gram flour with enough water (few Tbsp. at a time) to make a smooth paste.  Be sure that no lumps remain.  Pour coconut milk in a large bowl and add 2 cups water. Combine the besan batter slowly to the milk mixture and mix well with a wire whisk.  Keep aside.
       Heat the oil in a medium-sized pot and add the curry leaves and sliced onions.  When onion turns translucent and slightly golden, add salt, turmeric, and cayenne pepper.  Sauté for a couple minutes and then add the coconut mixture.  Cook over medium-low heat for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. The milk will thicken slightly. Add the sugar and msg.  Cover and keep on very low heat for 10 more minutes, until oil returns to the top. The soup is now ready.
      Combine all the curry ingredients in a pot and add the necessary amount of water (more for beef, less for chicken) and cook covered over medium-low heat until meat is cooked. Now add more oil if the curry looks too dry and sauté over low heat until curry is aromatic and oil separates.  The curry is now ready.
      To serve, place spaghetti in a big bowl then ladle the soup into it.  Add the curry and top with garnishes. Serve hot and enjoy every last bite of this irresistible, mouth watering dish!
    