DELICES DE FROMAGE
(Deep-Fried Cheese Squares)  

4  Tbsp. unsalted butter
1 1/2  c. milk
3  egg yolks
1/8  tsp. white pepper
1  c. freshly grated Swiss Emmentaler cheese (about 1/4 lb.)
  vegetable oil for frying
1 1/4  c. all-purpose flour
1  tsp. salt
1  c. freshly grated Swiss Gruyere cheese (about 1/4 lb.)
2 eggs, beaten together with 1/3  c. milk

      In a heavy saucepan, melt the butter over moderate heat.  When the foam begins to subside, stir in 3/4 cup of the flour and mix together thoroughly.  Pour in the milk and stir constantly with a whisk.  Cook over high heat until the sauce comes to a boil and thickens.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes, whisking frequently.  Remove the pan from the heat.  Using a wooden spoon, vigorously beat in the egg yolks, one at a time.  Add the salt and pepper and stir in the grated cheese.  When thoroughly combined, pour the mixture into a lightly buttered 8 x 6-inch baking dish, spreading it out to 1/2-inch thickness and smoothing the top.  Cool to room temperature, then cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight or until firm.  With a pastry wheel or sharp knife, cut the cheese mixture into 2-inch squares, lifting them out of the dish with a small spatula and placing them on waxed paper.  Dip the squares in the remaining flour, one at a time. When they are completely coated on all sides, shake off any excess flour and dip them into the egg and milk mixture.  Coat them on all sides with the bread crumbs, patting gently with a spatula to make them adhere.  Arrange the squares on a large baking sheet and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, until the coating is firm.  Pour enough oil into a deep-fryer or large, heavy saucepan to come 2 to 3-inches up the sides of the pan and heat the oil until it reaches 375 degrees;.  Preheat oven to its lowest setting.  Line a large baking dish with a double thickness of paper towels and place it in the middle of the oven.
      Deep-fry the Delices 3 or 4 at a time, turning them with a slotted spoon for about 5 minutes or until they are golden brown on both sides.  As they brown, transfer them to the baking dish in the oven to keep them warm while you deep-fry the rest.  Serve at once, as a first course or as an appetizer.
    