MAKLOOBA
(Chicken Turnover)  

1  medium eggplant
1  Tbsp. salt
1/2  chicken, cut into serving pieces
3  c. water
1 (8 oz.)  can tomato sauce
1  tsp. salt
1/4  c. vegetable oil
2  c. rice, washed and drained
1/2  c. vegetable oil

      Remove green cone from eggplant, then slice eggplant lengthwise into 1/2-inch thick slices.  Place eggplant slices in a colander. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon salt on them.  Set aside for one hour so that the juice drains from the eggplant.
      In a 5-quart pan, place chicken, water, tomato sauce and 1 teaspoon salt.  Cook over medium heat until chicken is tender. Remove chicken from broth and set aside.  To the broth, add the 1/4 cup vegetable oil and rice.  Stir.  Bring to a boil on high heat. Cook on medium heat until excess water is absorbed.  Frequently mix rice bottom-up so that it will not stick to the bottom of the pot. Cook, covered, on low heat, stirring occasionally, until rice absorbs all liquid and softens to desired consistency.  Let stand on very low heat for 10 minutes.  If rice does not reach desired consistency, add more water and simmer longer.
      In the meantime, heat 1/2 cup vegetable oil in a skillet. Rinse and pat dry eggplant slices, then fry on both sides in hot oil until they turn golden brown.  Place fried eggplant slices on napkins to absorb excess oil.  Set aside.  Remove rice from heat and transfer to a big bowl.  In the bottom of the 5-quart pot used to cook the rice, arrange the chicken pieces side by side.  On top of chicken, arrange eggplant pieces side by side.  Spoon rice over chicken and eggplant layers, pressing rice well with a spoon. Cook, covered, on low heat for 15 minutes.  Remove from heat.  Let stand for 15 more minutes.
      To Serve:  Uncover pot.  Place a platter that has a diameter several inches larger than the diameter of the pot face-down over pot.  Place one hand over platter and the other on bottom of pot. In one motion, turn assembly upside down.  Place on a sturdy flat surface (pot on top of platter now).  Gently pat bottom and sides of pot to ease rice out of it and onto the platter.  Gently, lift pot upward.  The layers of chicken, eggplant and rice will remain in the shape of the pot, elegantly displayed.  How well you press the rice when you spoon it into pot will determine if it will mold or not.  Serve with green salad and pickles.
    