FRIJOLES A LA CHARRA


3 to 4  c. pinto beans
2  c. large red kidney beans
1/2  pkg. bacon (keep whole slices)
  salt and pepper to taste
1  Tbsp. garlic salt
2  large onions, chopped (add separately per directions)
4  tomatoes, chopped in 1 to 2-inch pieces (added separately per directions)
3  or more sprigs of fresh cilantro (added separately per directions)
  whole garlic

	Clean and rinse pinto and kidney beans. Best if beans can be soaked overnight or bring to a slow boil for 20 or 30 minutes. Drain water and rinse thoroughly under faucet.
	In a very large pot, add fresh water almost to rim leaving ample room for remaining ingredients. Remember, beans expand during cooking so you want to have a large enough pot to accommodate all ingredients. Cover pot while cooking.
	Bring beans to a boil and add a half of package of bacon (leave as strips; do not chop).  Add salt, pepper and a little garlic salt.  Stir well.  Add 2 tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 or 2 sprigs of cilantro (depends on size of sprigs), 3 to 5 garlic gloves (adjust to your taste).  Add 2 or 3 jalapeno (leave whole).
	Add water as needed to maintain full pot. Continue boiling on low for several hours, checking to be sure there is sufficient water in pot. Beans and vegetables will absorb water. When the veggies have cooked down, add more tomatoes, onion and cilantro sprigs and continue cooking. Taste test as beans cook in the event you need to add more seasoning.
	Cook until beans are soft, almost mushy. About 1 to 2 hours before serving, add the remaining tomato, onion and cilantro (this time chop fine). Remove any large fatty pieces of bacon before serving. Pierce the jalapenos in order to allow them to emit juices into the soup. If desired, you can chop the jalapenos and return them to the soup. If you like jalapenos, this will give your soup a nice hot and spicy flavor. Otherwise, you can discard them.
	Beans should be cooked on low heat. Start cooking your beans about 8 to 10 hours before you plan to have your meal.  They are better when cooked slowly. Remember, the bean broth will not be clear.
	This recipe may look complicated, but it is not and it is really worth the effort. Very delicious.
    